[Music]
oh it's the cat's meow
in fact it's 26 facts about cats that'll
make you love them even if you're a dog
lover
well maybe did you know that every
culture has its own word for the sound a
cat makes in English cats say meow
kitties in Korea say meow and a cat in
Turkey will greet you with meow
obviously the whole world is obsessed
with these adorable furry creatures so
why not brush up on your cat facts some
of them will definitely surprise you
before we pay homage to the feline be
sure to click that subscribe button and
ring the notification bell to join us on
the bright side number one the
Mesopotamians and ancient Egyptians were
the first to domesticate cats since
these cultures were dependent on
agriculture the enemies of their
livelihood were the animals that ate
their crops it's speculated that once
they finally figured out that wild cats
preyed on these creatures they fed the
cats to keep them around and this is how
they slowly became domesticated number
two when their pets died Egyptian cat
owners would not only mummify their
beloved friends along with some
mummified mice for their journey through
the afterlife
but also shave off their eyebrows as a
sign of mourning once their brows grew
back the period of mourning was over
yeah we're talking about the cat owners
eyebrows not actually shaving the dead
cats that would be weird number three
now since the Egyptians thought of cats
so highly
they accessorized their pets with jewels
the richer and more aristocratic the
owner the bigger the jeweled collar
their cat wore they also held an annual
cat festival number four in ancient
Egypt anyone found guilty of killing a
cat even accidentally was sentenced to
death wow that's harsh it was said that
not even the fear which rome inspired
could save a man from this ultimate
punishment number five American novelist
Ernest Hemingway was also known for his
collection of polydactyl also known as
six-toed cats that still live on his
estate in Key West Florida to this day
man those are some really old cats Oh
all of them are thought to be
descendants of the original polydactyl
cat named Snow White that was given to
him by a ship captain now you can't talk
about cats without mentioning the
mystery and legends that surround him
number six you probably understand by
now that the early Egyptians really
loved their cats
but did you know they even worshiped cat
goddesses the most notable ones were
named Bastet and math dead and they were
used for protection Egyptians thought
that bastet manifested physically as a
cat and protected Egypt from invasion
just like a cat protects its owner's
home number 7 in China they have a
similar cat goddess named Lee Chou
according to the folklore Lee Chou was
given the responsibility of overseeing
world affairs but when she decided to
take a nap instead typical cat that
responsibility was then turned over to
humans number 8 in slavic mythology it
was believed that a barn cat named ova
neck was the protector of crops and
livestock they also said that OVA neck
would even burn down the homes of any
evildoers aah
beware the cat with matches number 9
free via the Scandinavian goddess of the
crops
rode on a chariot that was pulled by
cats would you think I was gonna say
dogs or something number 10 it was only
around the Middle Ages when cat folklore
turned dark during this time cats were
thought to be accomplices of witches and
black magic
number 11 the pussy-willow got its name
from yet another legend involving cats
it went something like this a mother cat
was crying near a river one day because
her kittens fell into the water and she
knew she'd never be able to retrieve
them it was at this moment that some
Reed's bent over into the water so that
the kittens could use them to climb out
to safety ever since then the reeds grow
these velvety blooms at the top as a
reward for their kind act by the way in
case you're wondering Galore from
the James Bond movie Goldfinger had
nothing to do with a cat number 12 the
waving manekineko cat figurines you
might come across an East Asian
storefronts were born from a legend
about a cat at the go to Koo Chi temple
in Japan it was standing in the doorway
of the temple watching passers-by and
raised its paws at around the same time
a feudal lord was walking by seemingly
calling him into the temple as the Lord
entered the temple the spot where he had
been standing just moments before was
struck by lightning the Lord believed
that the cat saved his life and to this
day the beckoning cat is still seen as a
symbol of success and happiness and when
given as a gift they're considered to
bring good luck
all right cats do have a rich history
and human culture but let's move on and
talk about their superpowers from their
bodies to their senses to the way they
communicate cats are truly living
Marvel's number thirteen you've likely
heard about the neck cat's half are
always landing on their feet no matter
how far they fall this is called a
righting reflex and it's basically their
innate ability to orient themselves as
they're falling combined with their
super flexible spine and collarbone 14
cats can't taste sweet foods but they do
have an extra organ that allows them to
taste scents in the air apparently
that's why they stare at you sometimes
with their mouths open
in feed me you silly human number 15
cats have outstanding balance that's
only made better by their long tails 16
a cat's whiskers are generally about the
width of its body they can use them to
gauge whether or not they can fit into
small spaces which can be a matter of
life or death when it comes to getting
away from a predator this is also the
reason why you should never ever cut
your cat's whiskers number 17 cats
communicate with each other by spraying
urine or scratching their claws on
things in their environment they also
use vocal tones that range from light to
very serious and aggressive if they live
inside you can usually see evidence of
them marking their territory on your
couch doors curtains and chairs as for
outdoor cats they'll try to mark or
spray their territory on trees and
fences number 18 cat's meow only to
communicate with humans their natural
vocal range is actually inaudible to
people whether or not they understand us
when we meow back is another question
entirely number 19 and one more note on
kitty communication cats also use their
tails to send different messages a
vibrating tail means they're happy to
see you a tail that's standing straight
up with a fur completely puffed out
means they're startled it's like the
human equivalent of a eat the
quintessential question mark tail means
they're curious and friendly but still
just a bit hesitant the tip twitch
meaning just the end is twitching back
and forth is usually a warning that
they're starting to get agitated the
tail hug is literally just that it's
when a cat sits down besides you and
literally gives you a pseudo hug with
its tail Oh
number 20 cats are carnivores which
aside from cleaning themselves is why
they have that rough sandpaper tongue
it's supposed to help them clean every
last morsel of flesh
an animal bone 21 cats can drink
seawater unlike humans cats have kidneys
that can filter out the salt from
seawater 22 the ridges on a cat's nose
are like fingerprints for people that
means no to kitty noses are exactly
alike 23 Kitty start to dream at about a
week old you've also probably noticed
that they sleep a lot but it's not
because they're lazy it's just that
their growth hormones are only released
when they're sleeping in fact cats spend
about two-thirds of the day sleeping and
about one-third of their awake time
cleaning themselves it's been calculated
that cats sleep so much by the time
they're nine years old
they'll technically have only been awake
for three years 24 most female cats are
right pod while most males are left pod
25 cats purr at a frequency of about 26
per second and 26 cats have a homing
instinct that allows them to find their
way back to their familiar abode through
a process called side traveling it's
even speculated that they could have
magnetized brain cells and act like a
compass just as we suspected there are
definitely light years ahead of us it's
no wonder they were worshipped by
ancient Egyptians cats are truly
wondrous little creatures and we humans
should be honored to share our lives in
their presence if you don't feel that
way well they definitely do so which cat
fact did you find the most surprising
let us know down in the comments don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your cat loving friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
[Music]
you